Adds Technical Blueprint to pkgdown site (#923)
insightsengineering/teal: vignettes/blueprint/qenv.Rmd

---
title: "`qenv`"
author: "NEST CoreDev"
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{`qenv`}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

## Introduction

Reproducibility is paramount in the pharmaceutical industry. 
Accurate and consistent results are essential to ensure high-quality research and the safety of patients.
By prioritizing reproducibility, researchers can validate their methods, confirm their findings, and contribute to the advancement of the field.

> `qenv` is an essential feature provided by the `teal.code` R package that simplifies code reproducibility.

Reviewer: please introduce ref to `teal.code` documentation

Reviewer 2: Done

Reviewer 2: Done

It is an R object that contains both code and environment, enabling the easy sharing and replication of R code.
The R code is passed to the qenv object, which holds and evaluates it upon request.

## `qenv` in a `teal` application

In a `teal` application, the `qenv` object is created by the module developer when implementing the necessary logic for the module. In essence, it is a wrapper of the module's logic that allows the R code for the analysis to be inspected and reproducible outside the teal application. It includes the required libraries, filtering information and logic.

The `qenv` object makes it easy for users to reproduce and validate the results of their analyses.

> ```{dot qenv_dot_diagram, echo=FALSE}

Reviewer: also: you might consider replacing static image with mermaid diagram which is much easier to modify if needed

> digraph G {

Reviewer 2: If user builds the site locally, they would need to have graphviz locally.

> In a `teal` application, a `qenv` object is created by the module developer in the module's server function. All data operations are performed within the `qenv`'s environment and their R code is stored, which allows for the code to be inspected and reproduced outside the `teal` application. This includes data loading, preprocessing, filtering, transformations, and plotting, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a `teal` application, a `qenv` object is created by the module developer in the module's server function. All data operations and their R code are appended and stored within the `qenv`'s environment, which allows for the code to be evaluated and executed in the `teal` application, and reproduced outside the `teal` application. This includes data loading, preprocessing, filtering, transformations, and plotting, etc.
```

@vedhav what do you think?

Reviewer 3: perfect!

    qenv [label = "qenv"];
    node [shape=box];
    teal_modules [label = "teal modules analysis R code"];
    library [label = "R library() calls"];
    filter_states [label = "filter states R code"];
    data [label = "data preprocessing R code"];
    teal_modules -> qenv;
    library -> qenv;
    edge [dir="back"];
    qenv -> filter_states;
    qenv -> data;
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Learn more about the use of `qenv` in [`teal` custom module](https://insightsengineering.github.io/teal/main/articles/creating-custom-modules.html) vignette.
```

#### `Show R Code` and `Reporter`

The `qenv` object is used to support the module's visualizations, such as textual information, tables and plots. Additionally it also supports:

1. The `Show R Code` button
1. The `Reporter` feature

The former allows users to inspect the contents of the `qenv` object, enabling them to closely analyze and replicate the module's analysis.

> The latter utilizes the `qenv` object to merge multiple `qenv` objects from various `teal` modules, resulting in a downloadable report with reproducible results that ensures accurate and consistent data presentations.

Reviewer 2: What do you think about this?

The `qenv` object is used to support the module's visualizations, such as textual information, tables, and plots. It serves as the main object for the analysis. Additionally, it also supports:

1. The `Show R Code` button
2. Integration with the `Reporter` feature

The former allows users to inspect the contents of the `qenv` object, enabling them to closely analyze and replicate the module's analysis. 

The latter feature, the `Reporter`, utilizes the information stored in the `qenv` object to present analysis results and incorporate the code from the `qenv` object. This integration results in a downloadable report with reproducible results, ensuring accurate and consistent data presentations.

> The latter utilizes the `qenv` object to merge multiple `qenv` objects from various `teal` modules, resulting in a downloadable report with reproducible results that ensures accurate and consistent data presentations.

Reviewer 4: > The `qenv` object is used to support the module's visualizations, such as textual information, tables, and plots. It serves as the main object for the analysis. 

Not true. Visualizations do not require `qenv` in any way. `qenv` provides code trackig/reproducibility and that is that. The object of the analysis is arguably the (filtered) data. The fact that `qenv` is used in the code is merely because we want to track the analysis.

> (...) supports:
> 1. The `Show R Code` button

Not entirely. `Show R Code` is basically a way to peer into the code stored in the `qenv`. You might say it is supported by `qenv` but I think `Show R Code` being in interface to `qenv` is more accurate.

> (...) supports:
> 2. Integration with the `Reporter` feature

Not clear. What does integration mean? What is integrated with what? How would `qenv` support it?. `qenv` enhances the report by adding the code to it.

> The former allows users to inspect the contents of the `qenv` object, enabling them to closely analyze and replicate the module's analysis.

True.

> The latter feature, the `Reporter`, utilizes the information stored in the `qenv` object to present analysis results and incorporate the code from the `qenv` object. 

Not true.

> This integration results in a downloadable report with reproducible results, ensuring accurate and consistent data presentations.

True but may be misleading if context above is not provided.

> The latter utilizes the `qenv` object to merge multiple `qenv` objects from various `teal` modules, resulting in a downloadable report with reproducible results that ensures accurate and consistent data presentations.

Reviewer 2: Let me take a different spin on this.

How about this?

#### `Show R Code` and `Reporter`

In both the `teal.modules.clinical` and `teal.modules.general` R packages, you'll find that most modules include a convenient `Show R Code` button. When this button is clicked, a modal window appears, revealing the R code responsible for generating the module's output. This functionality is achieved by inspecting the `qenv` object, which contains the stored code. With the `Show R Code` button, users can now easily copy and independently run the code to reproduce the same analysis presented in the teal module.

The `Reporter` feature also leverages the `qenv` object in its operation. Much like the `Show R Code` mechanism, the code displayed in a `Reporter Card` is extracted from the `qenv` object.

> The latter utilizes the `qenv` object to merge multiple `qenv` objects from various `teal` modules, resulting in a downloadable report with reproducible results that ensures accurate and consistent data presentations.

Reviewer 3: Just these small changes:
1. We just need backticks for the package names like `teal.modules.clinical`
2. We can place the `showrcode.jpg` image after the first paragraph talking about that and then we can talk about the reporter and place its screenshot.

> The latter utilizes the `qenv` object to merge multiple `qenv` objects from various `teal` modules, resulting in a downloadable report with reproducible results that ensures accurate and consistent data presentations.

Reviewer 2: Great idea. Made the changes.

> 

Reviewer 2: Let me take a different spin on this.

How about this?

#### `Show R Code` and `Reporter`

In both the `teal.modules.clinical` and `teal.modules.general` R packages, you'll find that most modules include a convenient `Show R Code` button. When this button is clicked, a modal window appears, revealing the R code responsible for generating the module's output. This functionality is achieved by inspecting the `qenv` object, which contains the stored code. With the `Show R Code` button, users can now easily copy and independently run the code to reproduce the same analysis presented in the teal module.

The `Reporter` feature also leverages the `qenv` object in its operation. Much like the `Show R Code` mechanism, the code displayed in a `Reporter Card` is extracted from the `qenv` object.
